# Introduction and Background

Social Network Analysis (SNA) is a huge part of the Network Science field and is concerned with the process of investigating social structures that occur in the real-world using Network and Graph Theory. These social structures usually include social media networks [@grandjeanSocialNetworkAnalysis2016; @hagenCrisisCommunicationsAge2018], economic transaction networks [@prykeAnalysingConstructionProject2004; @kongWhyAreSocial2011; @swamynathanSocialNetworksImprove2008], knowledge networks [@gruberCollectiveKnowledgeSystems2008; @brenneckeFirmKnowledgeNetwork2017], and disease transmission networks [@morrisNetworkEpidemiologyHandbook2004; @stattnerSocialNetworkAnalysis2011].

One main issue to address while studying this type of real-world events lies in the identification of meaningful substructures hidden within the overall complex system. The SNA is therefore applied to extract patterns from the data, typically in the form of information flow, identification of high throughput nodes and paths, and discovery of communities and clusters. In this thesis, we are going to focus on the problem of community discovery.

This thesis proposal is structured as follows: in this section, we are going to introduce basic concepts and challenges of Dynamic Community Detection. In +@literature-review, a brief literature survey is conducted, identifying the current state of the art and approaches to Dynamic Community Detection. In +@research-questions, we will describe the issue we are trying to solve as well as formulate the research questions. Subsequently, in +@approach, we will elaborate on our proposed methodology for solving the posed problem and answering the research questions. Finally, in +@planning, the concrete planning for the research project is laid out.

## Community Detection

The problem of partitioning a complex network into *communities* which represent groups of individuals with high interaction density, while individuals from different communities have comparatively low interaction density, is known as Community Discovery (CD). CD is a task of fundamental importance within SNA, as it discloses deeper properties of networks. It provides insight into networks’ internal structure and its organizational principles.

Many useful applications of CD have been studied by researchers including identification of criminal groups [@sarvariConstructingAnalyzingCriminal2014], social bot detection [@karatasReviewSocialBot2017], targeted marketing [@mosadeghUsingSocialNetwork2011], and public health/disease control [@salatheDynamicsControlDiseases2010].

With the explosion of human- and machine-generated data, often collected by social platforms, more datasets are emerging having rich temporal information that can be studied. Most of the CD methods operate only on static networks. Meaning that their temporal dimension is typically omitted, which doesn't yield a good representation of the real world, where networks constantly evolve. Such networks are referred to as dynamic networks, since their components such as nodes and edges may appear and fade from existence. Accordingly, community detection on such dynamic networks is called Dynamic Community Detection (DCD).

DCD algorithms that incorporate additional temporal data are often able to both outperform their counterpart CD algorithms [@granellBenchmarkModelAssess2015; @liuCommunityDetectionMultiPartite2016; @faniUserCommunityDetection2020; @rossettiANGELEfficientEffective2020], as well as provide additional information about communities for analysis [@pallaQuantifyingSocialGroup2007]. This additional information comes in form of community events such as (birth, growth, split, merging, and death) or in form of the ability to track the membership of certain individuals over time.

## Challenges in Community Detection

DCD is seen as the hardest problem within Social Network Analysis. The reason for this is mainly because DCD, unlike CD, also involves tracking the found communities over time. This tracking relies on the consistency of the detected communities, as usually slight changes to the network may cause a different community membership assignment. Not properly accounting for this uncertainty may cause community and result drift [@dakicheTrackingCommunityEvolution2019].

Additionally, the increasing richness of the data is not only limited to temporal data. The real-world data often connects entities of different modalities. This multi-modality occurs through the fact that the entities and relations themselves may be of different types (meta topology-based features). For example: users, topics, and documents in a social network or vehicles and landmarks in a traffic network. More complex networks may include asymmetric relationships, and temporal networks may include appearing, disappearing, or streaming edges/nodes.

Another example of multi-modality in networks comes in the form of node and relation features (content-based features). These features may come in the form of structured (numerical, categorical, or vector data) or unstructured data such as images and text. It is of high importance to explore this multi-modal data, as it may not always be possible to explain the formation of communities using network structural information alone.

Finally, a more systematic issue is that there is no common definition for a community structure. Within networks, it is usually described in terms of membership assignment, while in more content-based settings communities are described in terms of modeled topics (that usually represent interest areas) or distributions over latent similarity space. Both definitions have their shortcomings, as they often fail to account for more complex community structures (overlapping and hierarchical communities) and non-linearity of structures often found in the real world.

The task of community detection is often compared to clustering and graph clustering, which may not always be a fair comparison, as a main focus point in many CD algorithms is the fact that the amount of communities is unknown a priori. Communities are never planted in the real-world, and the algorithms should detect them in an unsupervised manner.
